# Industrie 4.0

Industrie 4.0 is the name of the fourth industrial revolution. The first three industrial revolutions did put a focus on mass production, and each of these revolutions did introduce significant changes into production. The first industrial revolution at that time did introduce mechanical machines. They increased the available working power significantly, and provided great support to human workers. The introduced additional steam- and water-powered workforce did significantly improve the production. The second industrial revolution was the electrification and the introduction of the conveyor belt, which enabled the modern assembly line. The resulting division of labor did greatly increase the efficiency of production plants and was the beginning of the modern mass production. This led to significantly better product availability and thus an increase in general living standards. The third industrial revolution was driven by automation technology - it started by replacing monotonous and repetitive steps in production with robots. PLC controllers did automate more and more production steps. This also had significant consequences for production. Not all of them were positive at that time. The automation did replace many jobs in production with machines. As a consequence, many workers lost their jobs during this phase. On the other hand, the automation again did significantly increase the efficiency of production, which did result again in cheaper prices for mass produced products, and also new jobs in the automation industry. The fourth industrial revolution, at the threshold of which we are located, addresses the end-to-end digitalization of manufacturing. It will of course also have impact on the mass-production. But in addition to the previous three revolutions, Industrie 4.0 will introduce additional, and much more revolutionary changes to production systems.

